# Essays

###### response 1   
When I was a kid I had a romantic notion of becoming an architect. I’d build my dolls mansions out of shoe boxes. For weekends at a time the living room would be taken up by masterful pillow forts, and at the beach I would spend hours constructing elaborate sandcastles. A pile of sticky popsicle sticks was the lumber yard of my dreams. Later, I cultivated the dream of being a commercial artist. My talent for drawing and painting got me good grades on book reports and later earned me awards in high school. I got my BFA Communication Design but my heart wasn't in it. My mother refused to let me off the hook and encouraged me to finish my degree. I got into nannying a year out of college and fell in love with the kids. Being a contribution to the lives of others is the most satisfying thing I've ever had the privalege of doing. I believe that with skills in tech I can become part of a privileged group of people with access to creating the tools that make life better for everyone.

At this stage in my life I am craving a new adventure, and it hasn't been clear what that would be. My older sister Paula sent me the Ada application form a few weeks ago and a screenshot of the qualities an ideal Ada student. The nannying that I have been doing for the past 7 years encompasses 6 out of 7 bullet points. A passion for software development was the only thing I was missing. The tech industry is vital and exciting, but it never occurred to me to pursue a career as a programmer or developer. The only coding experience I had came from the dabbling I had done in high school with pirated software and the mandatory web design classes in undergrad at Pratt. I want to stretch my sense of what I can accomplish and see what becomes possible for my life while contributing to the lives of others. Learning the language of the fastest growing tools for growth and innovation would be a spectacular adventure, and would allow me to make a big impact on the world.

###### response 2  
A lot can happen in 5 years, especially in the fast changing world of tech. I can see myself working in organizations for the benefit of global equity and social harmony. Perhaps I’ll be working in a company like Beaconfire that caters to non-profits. I might be part of a team that creates systems and programs to support children with disabilities and their families. The skills I learn at Ada will allow me to support the growth and development of society towards inclusivity and harmony. Wherever I am employed I will help to reinvent what it means to be a human in the fast changing world. 
###### response 3  
For as long as I can remember, I have been asking how do I contribute to inclusion and diversity. Raised by my single white mother in a community steeped in fear and resentment of whiteness, my siblings and I had to work harder to be respected by our peers. We grew up without our dad in the projects of St. Croix, U.S.V.I. I was always asking how can I maintain my unique status. When I was in high school I wrote “Death to Conformity” on my back pack in bold black permanent letters. I had no choice but to be non-conformist. I was a quirky kid. So much of my identity growing up fell outside of the acceptable standards of the Caribbean culture that surrounded me. Being on the outside, I felt the pain of being too different to be accepted. So I leaned into my eccentricities and cultivated an appreciation for differences in all people. The distance I felt between my inner world and the one became an explorative space. I recognized the absurdity of categorizing and separating people based on superficial attributes, and the poverty of community that comes from devaluing a group based on economic and cultural differences. The access to observing from the outside has served me well in everything I undertake.


Being free from the attachments to culture, style, and sometimes rules, I have access to creative ways of thinking and being that allow me flexibility in problem solving and interpersonal connections. Why struggle to fit in and contribute to the monotony or style, interests, and views? Maturity has curbed my naturally divergent sensibilities. In my adulthood I have learned to depend on and be depended on by others, contributing to family, friends, and clients, and being contributed to by them. For the past seven years I have worked as a caregiver for two children with differing abilities and developmental delays. In the time I have become close with these children and their family, as well as their communities. My belief in the value of differences for the greater edification and enrichment of society has been deepened.

I learned to embrace the benefit of the outsiders perspective. And developed a passion for raising awareness of the beauty and utility of diversity in whatever way I can. I am constantly seeking to relinquish limiting ways of being and acting that come from thinking within boxes. If the Ada community accepts me, I would bring the ever-increasing depth of my history and experience with me.  
###### response 4
A mistake I learned a great deal from involved my older brother, Nicholas. I learned about setting limits within relationships, and the insidious nature of codependency. When Nicholas was released from prison I sent him money whenever he asked for it. Eventually I realized that I was enabling him to abdicate his responsibilities. In my mind I was a good little sister, until I saw that I was helping him to stay helpless. It was difficult to explain to him that I wouldn't be sending him money anymore. I offered to support him in other ways, and he seemed to get it. Before long he was asking me for money again and when I said no he lashed out and became extremely verbally abusive. A few weeks later he had devised a way to scam me out of my savings by pretending that his life was in danger. Once I got wise to his ploy I didn't speak to him for three years. The loss I felt for my older brother was intense. For those three years he might as well have died, I missed him so much. With the contribution of some wise friends and personal development classes, I realized that I didn't have to live in fear of him. I got in touch with him again and apologized for not setting clear boundaries sooner. I explained that I love him and want to see him do well for himself. I want to be in his life but I will not tolerate him asking me for money, or any criminal behavior. By taking responsibility for my part in our past problems it was easier for him to take responsibility for his. Today we have a healthy relationship and he hasn't asked me for money since we began speaking again.
